URL: https://eur-lex.europa.eu/eli/reg/2024/1183/oj/eng
Publisher: Official Journal of the European Union
Fetch date: 2026-09-03
Page/section: Article 5b(1)–(3), (6), (8)–(10), “European Digital Identity Wallet-Relying Parties”

1. Where a relying party intends to rely upon European Digital Identity Wallets for the provision of public or private services by means of digital interaction, the relying party shall register in the Member State where it is established.

2. The registration process shall be cost-effective and proportionate-to-risk. The relying party shall provide at least:

(a) the information necessary to authenticate to European Digital Identity Wallets, which as a minimum includes:

(i) the Member State in which the relying party is established; and

(ii) the name of the relying party and, where applicable, its registration number as stated in an official record together with identification data of that official record;

(b) the contact details of the relying party;

(c) the intended use of European Digital Identity Wallets, including an indication of the data to be requested by the relying party from users.

3. Relying parties shall not request users to provide any data other than that indicated pursuant to paragraph 2, point (c).

6. Relying parties registered in accordance with this Article shall inform Member States without delay about any changes to the information provided in the registration pursuant to paragraph 2.

8. Where relying parties intend to rely upon European Digital Identity Wallets, they shall identify themselves to the user.

9. Relying parties shall be responsible for carrying out the procedure for authenticating and validating person identification data and electronic attestation of attributes requested from European Digital Identity Wallets. Relying parties shall not refuse the use of pseudonyms, where the identification of the user is not required by Union or national law.

10. Intermediaries acting on behalf of relying parties shall be deemed to be relying parties and shall not store data about the content of the transaction.
