URL: https://eur-lex.europa.eu/eli/reg/2024/2847/oj/eng
Publisher: European Union (EUR-Lex)
Fetch date: 2026-09-03
Page/section: Article 14(1)-(4), Article 71(2)

Article 14

Reporting obligations of manufacturers

1. A manufacturer shall notify any actively exploited vulnerability contained in the product with digital elements that it becomes aware of simultaneously to the CSIRT designated as coordinator, in accordance with paragraph 7 of this Article, and to ENISA. The manufacturer shall notify that actively exploited vulnerability via the single reporting platform established pursuant to Article 16.

2. For the purposes of the notification referred to in paragraph 1, the manufacturer shall submit:

(a) an early warning notification of an actively exploited vulnerability, without undue delay and in any event within 24 hours of the manufacturer becoming aware of it

(b) unless the relevant information has already been provided, a vulnerability notification, without undue delay and in any event within 72 hours of the manufacturer becoming aware of the actively exploited vulnerability

(c) unless the relevant information has already been provided, a final report, no later than 14 days after a corrective or mitigating measure is available

3. A manufacturer shall notify any severe incident having an impact on the security of the product with digital elements that it becomes aware of simultaneously to the CSIRT designated as coordinator, in accordance with paragraph 7 of this Article, and to ENISA. The manufacturer shall notify that incident via the single reporting platform established pursuant to Article 16.

4. For the purposes of the notification referred to in paragraph 3, the manufacturer shall submit:

(a) an early warning notification of a severe incident having an impact on the security of the product with digital elements, without undue delay and in any event within 24 hours of the manufacturer becoming aware of it

(b) unless the relevant information has already been provided, an incident notification, without undue delay and in any event within 72 hours of the manufacturer becoming aware of the incident

Article 71

Entry into force and application

2. This Regulation shall apply from 11 December 2027.

However, Article 14 shall apply from 11 September 2026 and Chapter IV (Articles 35 to 51) shall apply from 11 June 2026.
